# XC-ML VERSION CONTROL & PARALLEL DEVELOPMENT
## Best Practices & Style Guide
*ML Team (Scientific Computing)*

**Most of this guide appears obvious**, and almost feels like most of it isn't even worth saying aloud, because "duh! doesn't everyone know how to code? what's the probem?" 

>Yeahhh, *not exactly*. Collaborating on something as information-heavy and conceptually-complex as X-CHEM's increasingly integrated is a problem that has faced programmers since the dinosaurs. Distributing work within complex software has always been a ubiquitous problem; it comes with the territory. 

## The solution? *Git*. 

 - As it turns out, a standardized set of guidelines allow everyone to "understand" one another's code, as it were. 
 - Style guides and best practice documents are extremely useful in reducing conflict and making our team development speedy, efficient, where we're all speaking the same language.

Therefore, the purpose of this document is twofold: 

1. **The first purpose of this document is to educate the basics of the git workflow(s)**, with emphasis on a general and possibly X-Chem-idiosyncratic understanding that everyone will loosely adhere to (Section I). In particular this section is for those with little to no experience with version control and/or git. Those with moderate understanding will not likely find this section worthwhile. 
> This section (Section I) can be considered separate than the following section, *Best Practices* (Section II) and *X-ML Style Guide* (Section III), and should be ignored except for reference. 

2. **The second and more crucial purpose of this document is to establish an initial system of collaboration free of confusion** by establishing general axioms to follow. 

***

# SECTION 1. 
## Prerequisites/Getting Started
##### Let's go. What/why/how "git"

- [x] Decide on version control system
- [ ] Confirm hosting at Github.com
- [ ] Establish X-Chem Github organization 
> (establish either Marie-Aude or Eric as organization founder)
- [ ] Create a logically organized project to bucket current work
- [ ] Within the project, create a repo per codebase. *Note: this can be organized differently and should be discussed by interested parties.*

### To start from scratch with GitHub:
**1. Create a GitHub.com account [here](https://github.com/join?source=header-home) if you do not already have one**

> Note: Github allows the addition of multiple emails, so ensure your x-chem domain email is at least included if not the primary email.  

**2. Join the X-CHEM ML GitHub organization ([link](https://i.redd.it/nykd2uzwy74z.jpg) [to](https://i.redd.it/nc5ua4x8lfg31.png) [come](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ))**


**3. Ensure you have git installed on your computer -- there are many ways to accomplish this.**
>Assuming Windows-based OS, we have two base level options. 
>> Either we can go the more hardcore development route (if you are comfortable in Terminal, choose this option; it's far faster if you're already used to it). This will allow you to manipulate git more quickly assuming the flow isn't too foreign and you wait a couple of days until you get the syntax down for the handful of commands you use consistently.  


Add the following GitHub.com users: 
- Henry Dixon [@hdixon](https://github.com/hdixon) 
- Belinda Slakman [@bslakman](https://github.com/bslakman)
